going to explain a drama war film called
the beguiled this depicts the pitfalls
of the different kinds of desire through
a lone soldier finding himself in a
school for girls spoilers ahead watch
out and take care
three years into the civil war in
virginia 1864 union soldier corporal
john mcburney finds himself hiding in
the woods unable to move because of his
injured leg
when amy comes across him while picking
up mushrooms the little girl doesn't
hesitate to offer him help amy tells
mcburney that she can take him to her
school on the other side of the woods
with mcburney asking if there are any
men there amy explains that there are
only two teachers and four other
students at the miss martha farnsworth
seminary for young ladies while amy
isn't sure if mcburney will be welcomed
there as a yankee she assures him that
it's a better place than the forest
clearly amy's been taught well by her
teachers with how she helps a stranger
without question out of the goodness of
her heart like an innocent little girl
amy doesn't even think about the danger
that the soldier could pose all she
wants to do is help a man in need and in
times of war help is hard to come by
with no other choice mcburney accepts
amy's invitation and the little girl
helps him as he walks along the way
mcburney learns that amy's teacher only
kept their school open because they
don't have anywhere else to go when amy
asks him if he ran away mcburney only
tells her that he got separated from his
group after they got hit
upon reaching the farnsworth seminary
the exhausted soldier finally passes out
amy calls miss martha and the rest for
help and they're all ambivalent towards
the soldier's presence there
still they take him to the porch where
they argue whether they should help him
or not miss martha orders amy to get
their blue rag and tie it to the gate
which will let the patrol know they've
captured a live yankee however misawina
thinks they should tend to his wound
first so miss martha says they'll wait
until mcburney's injury is healed before
they decide what to do with him they
then take him inside where miss martha
removes all the metal shards from his
wound before sowing it after tending to
the wounded soldier's needs miss martha
and miss aduena leave the room and find
their five students waiting for them
outside amy informs them of the
soldier's name but miss martha says his
name won't matter since he'll be leaving
soon
as miss martha cleans mcburney's body
miss edwina and the students proceed
with their sewing class the bells ring
signifying the approaching patrol miss
martha talks to the captain doesn't tell
him about mcburney instead she asks him
for an extra cartridge for her revolver
saying she'll feel safer if she knows
that she can use it despite miss
martha's initial decision to turn
mcburney over to the patrol her fright
and reluctance affected her judgment her
frequent glancing towards the school is
a small tell of her nerves but she keeps
a calm facade and gives nothing away
keeping mcburney there may be a problem
but she's still curious and concerned
seeing if she's kept her mouth shut
about him back inside the school miss
martha loads her gun before hiding it
again
meanwhile miss edwina scolds amy for
secretly talking to mckerney the girls
are having breakfast the next day and
alicia asks amy how much bernie is to
which amy answers that he's fine on the
other hand jane is annoyed that she
can't practice in the music room because
of mcburney but misadwina tells her that
the soldier will stay there for as long
as he needs to the teachers and the
students carry on with their regular
activities and when it's time for miss
martha to clean mcburney's wound she
makes it clear to the man that she
doesn't like his presence in her school
she asks him if he's not afraid that
she'll turn him over to the soldiers and
mcburney says he isn't mcberney thinks
there are far worse things that could
happen to him and he believes he would
have been dead already if it wasn't for
her in spite of mcburney's expressions
of gratitude miss martha remains cold
and reminds him that he's not their
guest but rather a most unwelcome
visitor mcburney understands where miss
martha is coming from but he still tries
to be friendly towards her when alicia
comes and asks miss martha if she needs
any help the teacher instructs her to
inform the other students that the music
room is off limits before miss martha
leaves mcburney politely asks if she
could give him some soap and a razor the
tension between mcburney and miss martha
rises when the teacher expresses how
discomforted she is by his presence
alicia however is very interested in the
corporal and finds ways to be close to
him when mcburney is finally left alone
he chuckles showing that he's enjoying
the attention he gets one day marie
visits mcburney in the music room to
bring him a prayer book and she made
sure to wear a set of pearl earrings
when marie leaves miss edwina sees her
on her way out and asks why she's
wearing her earrings the little girl
tries to be smart saying everyone has
dressed up that morning but miss edwina
wants her jewelry back
marie then promises to return it and
when miss edwina tells the girl to get
back to her work mcburney calls her
despite her hesitance miss edwina enters
the music room bringing the razor and
soap that mcburney asked for while the
teachers and students are anxious
because of mcburney they're still
thrilled to have a man in their school
it's not every day that the ladies get
to talk to a good looking soldier so
each one of them has their own strategy
on how they'll be noticed by the
corporal soon after mcburney's arrival
the ladies have started to change the
way they dress even wearing conspicuous
pieces of jewelry just to stand out
when miss edwina notices the soldier's
dirty nails mcburney admits that he
thought of burying himself in the middle
of chaos in battle however he failed so
he ran away instead misadvena doesn't
find that brave and walmart bernie
agrees he believes that what he did was
smart and gave him a chance to meet each
other as she cleans his wound misadvena
shares that her father is from richmond
and she left savannah when she was young
fascinated mcburney keeps asking miss
edwina questions about her life
wondering how someone like her ended up
in that school mcburney thinks she's
waiting for a sweetheart to return from
the war but misawina tells him she
doesn't have anyone in the military
being bold mcberney tells her that he's
never come across such beauty as hers he
then takes her hand and asks what her
greatest wish is and miss edwina admits
that she wishes someone would take her
away from that place a little
embarrassed the teacher leaves and
lingers outside the room trying to
gather herself
misadwina is on her guard the whole time
she's talking to mcbernie barely meeting
the soldier's eyes and careful not to
stir her feelings on the other hand
mcburney boldly displays his attraction
towards her making the teacher uneasy as
miss edwina remains by the door it is
apparent that she's trying so hard to
restrain herself from doing anything she
might regret later
during their evening prayer alicia
excuses herself and asks miss martha if
she could use the bath closet however
instead of going there she heads to the
music room and finds mcburney sleeping
without hesitation alicia kisses
mcburney on the lips and wakes him up
before quickly going back to join the
others in their prayer as alicia's
curiosity gets the best of her it
becomes clear that she'll do anything to
get mcburney's attention unwilling to
leave any room for competition she
audaciously makes the first move on the
corporal before the other girls can
luckily for alicia she manages to peek
the corporal's interest the next day
while having dinner the teachers and
students discuss what they might learn
while mcbernie stays with them alicia
says the site of mcburney will remind
them that there's something else in the
world beyond their lessons but miss
martha disagrees with her saying that
learning lessons at a young age can help
them attain a calm and happy life when
it's jane's turn to talk she tells them
that mcberney will constantly remind
them that the war is still going on and
they should keep praying the other girls
share their thoughts too and when
misadvena says she finds mcburney to be
a sensitive person miss martha asks her
to share more of her findings with them
miss martha then informs them that they
will join the corporal after dinner for
a prayer and everyone agrees with her
here it is apparent that alicia and miss
edwina both have their eyes set on
mcburney from the way they talk about
him it is undeniable that they like the
man although the other students are
curious about mcburney two they don't
speak of him with such adoration the way
alicia and mrdwina do after dinner the
teachers and the students head to the
music room to share a prayer with the
soldier miss martha then asks vayne to
play the piano for them and before the
girls start singing mcburney praises her
for playing beautifully as the students
sing the two teachers can't help but
feel a bit distracted by mccroney's
presence
all of a sudden they hear a loud
pounding on the door and miss martha
instructs ms edwina to stay with the
girls while she checks who their visitor
is before leaving miss martha also adds
that she'll rap on the door three times
to let them know if it's the enemy
soldiers at their gates and misadvena
says they'll go to the woods and meet
her there if that's the case amy is
concerned about mcburney but miss martha
says he'll have to stay behind since
he's not well yet miss martha leaves for
a while and when she returns she assures
everyone that the soldiers are two of
their own and they have offered them
their assistance the soldiers are eating
some food in the kitchen and miss martha
tells the ladies that she hasn't
informed the soldiers about mcburney yet
once again miss martha had her chance to
tell the soldiers about mcburney but she
didn't instead she lets them inside her
school acting as if she's not harboring
a deserter whether miss martha is
letting mcburney stay with him out of
her kindness or guilt miss edwina and
the girl sure are relieved that mcburney
isn't leaving yet however miss martha
intends to ask the soldiers to take
mcburney with them and amy is quick to
protest saying mcburney can't ride
without hurting his leg miss martha says
she'll tell the soldiers that mcburney
is still injured and just asked them to
come back but that will take a long time
after arguing over what they should do
with their visitor miss martha makes the
final decision of letting mcburney stay
with him only until he's recovered
defeated the girls agree with miss
martha's plan and they all go back to
their rooms before leaving mcburney
alone miss martha asks him if he'd like
to join her for a brandy when she
returns and mcburney says he'd like that
very much being the one to find mcburney
in the woods amy expresses the most
genuine concern about the corporal she
is worried about what will happen to him
and it's not because she likes him
romantically but because she considers
him to be her friend when all the girls
retire for the night mcburney eventually
shows his disappointment about miss
martha's decision when the two soldiers
finally leave the girls quietly discuss
how long they think mcburney will stay
with them meanwhile miss martha and
mcburnie talk about the girl's life at
school with mcburney expressing his
admiration for her dedication to them
miss martha admits that although she
gets tired sometimes she believes that
she needs to give the girls what they
need to survive in the war out of the
blue mcberney asks miss martha if she
had anyone before the war and the
teacher says she did mcburney doesn't
push miss martha to talk about that
person but instead he just apologizes to
her he then tells her that he was a
coward to leave but miss martha isn't
judging him mcburnie shares that he was
fresh off the boat from dublin when he
took 300 to take another man's place but
miss martha understands him and says
everyone has done things out of their
character miss martha says she'll see to
it that he'll find his way home and even
though he clearly doesn't want to leave
but bernie keeps quiet about it during
their conversation mcburney tries to win
miss martha over by repeatedly
complimenting her about her work but he
fails he then tries to get her sympathy
by saying he only joined the war so he
could have some money but that doesn't
work too judging by the look on his face
mcburney is fighting the urge to tell
miss martha that he has no intention of
fighting in the war again in the morning
amy provides a cane for mcburney and he
is grateful for it as he practices
walking around amy calls miss martha to
show what she's done for the corporal
and miss martha tells mcburney not to
force himself when mcburney loses his
balance miss martha catches him just in
time mcburney then asks amy to help him
go outside and on their way out alicia
reminds the young girl that it's her
turn in the kitchen garden when amy says
she's helping the corporal alicia offers
to relieve her but miss martha tells
them to stop arguing once outside
mcburney notices that the roses need
pruning and volunteers to do it but miss
martha won't let him amy then asks if
he's had gardening experience and when
the corporal says he's done a bit of it
miss martha resigns and asks him to
assist them when he recuperates thankful
mcburney says he'll be happy to do it
and amy and miss martha go back inside
mcburney's injury doesn't stop him from
attaining his goal of staying there his
insistence on helping miss martha with
her garden is just the front he puts to
hide his cowardice to leave and the
teacher sees right through him however
miss martha still lets him do what he
wants and the corporal must be relieved
that he finally has a reason to stay
mcberney starts working in the garden as
soon as he feels better late in the
afternoon miss martha thanks mcburney
for his hard work in the garden she then
asks to see his wounded leg and after
checking it she tells mcberney that he's
almost healed mcberney asks if she wants
him to go and even though she says she
doesn't miss martha thinks it would be
better if he leaves by the end of the
week
surprised mcburney asks miss martha
where he should go but the teacher says
that's entirely his business he then
expresses his desire to just stay there
and tend to their garden but the teacher
can't be swayed just when mcburney
thought he's safe his plan is suddenly
jeopardized this time but bernie fails
to maintain his composure revealing his
temperamental side once again he tries
to reason with the teacher to let him
stay only proving how scared he is to go
back to the outside world inside the
school amy informs alicia and emily that
miss martha has asked mcburney to leave
making the girls feel sad and worried
they then think of ways to stop
mcburney's departure from happening like
suggesting to miss martha that the corp
will join them for dinner when misadwina
visits mcburney in the music room the
corporal boldly tells her that he misses
being near her miss edwina tells him she
doesn't want him to go and mcberney
holds her hand confessing that he loves
her confused misadvena asks him not to
say that unless he means it but the
corporal insists he's telling the truth
he's felt this way from the moment they
spoke but he was afraid that misadwina
might push him away he confesses to
being a tired man who's tired of the war
and he just wishes to see the west
misadwina says that her father can help
him once he goes to richmond and
mcburney asks her to come with him
unable to control herself misadvena
gives into the soldiers charms and
kisses him but they are interrupted by
alicia who asks mcburney to join them
for supper in a desperate move mcburney
used miss edwina's affection for him
just so he could stay there the teacher
unfortunately fell for the corporal
sweet words easily clearly she's been
lonely for so long that she would
instantly believe a stranger's words
misadvena is so infatuated with mcburney
that she fails to see him for who he
really is
everyone dresses up nicely for dinner
and the girls continue to vibe for the
corporal's attention after eating
mcburnie asks miss edwina if he could
see her later in the evening but before
she could answer miss martha invites him
to join her in having some decisive as
they talk mcburney once again expresses
his desire to stay with them as their
gardener but miss martha doesn't say
anything when it's finally time for bed
miss martha takes mcburney to his room
and the two almost kissed if it isn't
for the girl's noise miss martha then
takes her leave and once everyone is
asleep miss edwina puts on a nice
nightgown and makes herself look
presentable as she waits for mcburney
however mcberney doesn't show up when
miss edwina decides to look for him she
finds the corporal in alicia's bed hurt
missed weena backs away from mcburney as
he tries to explain himself only to push
him down the stairs by accident alerted
by the commotion everyone gets out of
their rooms and miss martha realizes
that mcberney has broken his already
injured leg with miss martha asking to
know what happened alicia lies about
mcburney attacking her and misadvena
fighting him off believing alicia's
story miss martha asked the girls to
help her carry the soldier to the table
once there miss martha orders the
students to return to their rooms before
informing ms edwina that they need to
cut mcberney's leg although mrs weiner
vehemently disagrees with miss martha
she obeys her and leaves the room to
fetch the things they need for the
amputation this isn't the first time
alicia shows that she's willing to go to
great lengths to get what she wants
especially when she feels threatened
when she saw mcbernie focusing his
attention on miss edwina she made sure
that the corporal will come to her bed
instead of the teachers sadly for the
three their strong desire for one
another is so rotten that it led to a
horrible accident the next day mcburney
wakes up and realizes that his leg has
been amputated his screams bring ms
edwina to his room and as she tries to
talk to him mcberney accuses her and
miss martha of punishing him for not
going to their rooms instead misadvena
expresses how sorry she is and even
though miss martha insists that the
amputation saved his life the corporal
won't hear her enraged mcburney yells at
them to leave and bring him something
for the pain as the women leave they
make sure to lock mcburney inside the
room mcburney continues to wail the
whole day and while the girls worry
about what they should do miss martha
thinks it would be unwise if they let
him go he could tell the other men of
their garden and cow and lead them to
the school alicia then visits mcburney
when he finally calms down but the man
isn't in the mood to talk to her he then
demands alicia to bring him the key to
his room and when she refuses he grabs
her by the hair and eventually makes her
do his bidding
finally with mcburney unraveling he's
starting to show his true colors he
isn't the charming man everyone thought
he was
of course losing a leg is a tragedy for
most people but mcburney is so
self-absorbed that he believes his
amputation to be a conspiracy against
him by bitter and jealous women still
alicia keeps visiting the corporal in
his room proving she's unbothered by his
outbursts later on as jane goes down the
stairs mcpherny asks her to come into
his room although she's a little scared
jane listens to mcburney as he begs her
to put a good word for him with miss
martha and the others mcburney wants
jane to ask miss martha to let him stay
and when jane says she will she hurtly
leaves and locks the door later that day
mcburney manages to escape from his room
and get a gun with the girls frightened
miss martha tells mcburney that they
will assist him as he leaves but the
corporal makes it clear that he'll only
go when he wants to he keeps claiming
that misadwina pushed him off the stairs
and miss martha amputated his leg
because he didn't visit them in their
rooms that night amy tries to calm him
down but the soldier has changed and he
even throws amy's pet turtle away he
then starts drinking and breaking stuff
and when he leaves miss martha instructs
amy to tie the blue rag to the gate
unfortunately mcburney catches amy and
chases her into the woods mcburney must
have felt betrayed for amy was the first
person among the ladies to show him
kindness he probably doesn't expect the
little girl to turn against him because
she's always been the one to stand up
for him against miss martha even though
he genuinely likes amy mcburney is
forced to stop her from doing her task
the girl screams and miss martha goes to
check on her to her horror miss martha
finds amy with mcburney in the barn with
a corporal threatening her with a gun
miss martha asks him to join them inside
the school there mcburney orders
everyone to sit down before promising
them he meant them no harm he's pained
and frustrated over his amputated leg
and he asserts that he'd rather be dead
than be a man without a leg he asks miss
martha why she didn't just kill him when
she got the chance and when she doesn't
answer he tells them how much he regrets
trusting them he then threatens to shoot
anyone who disobeys him and as he's
about to leave mcferry shoots down the
chandelier just to prove a point
misawina tries to go after mcburney but
when miss martha stops her she pushes
her to the couch and goes to mcburney's
room miss adwina blocks the door with a
table before making a move on mcburney
the man pins her to the floor and he
makes love to her meanwhile miss martha
and the girls continue to think of how
they'll get rid of the corporal and
marie suggests they serve him with
poison mushrooms it's incredible to see
the effects a single man could have on
these girls lives after all that
mcburney's done and shown them miss
edwina's affection for him doesn't
change she even disregards miss martha's
wish that she stay away from the soldier
showing that she's done obeying miss
martha's orders and now the students and
miss martha were forced to come up with
their plan proving that a dangerous
situation can force a good person's hand
to do something unimaginable during
dinner mcburney gets himself a serving
of the poison mushrooms
miss edwina is also about to eat them
but amy manages to stop her as soon as
mcburney eats the mushrooms he starts
having difficulty breathing it isn't
long before he collapses on the floor
and dies misadwina looks at miss martha
and the girls bewildered over what
happened but they don't seem to be
bothered at all later on amy ties the
blue rag to the gate then helps the
other girl saw a shroud for mcberney's
body misadvena mourns the death of the
corporal but she doesn't say a word
about it when they're finally done the
teachers and the girls place mcberney's
body outside their gate for the patrol
to see
in the end the beguiled shows us that
god-fearing women aren't always weak and
innocent they can be fearless and
manipulative too especially when they
have their backs against the wall on the
other hand not all men are brave they
too can be cowards who will do anything
to survive still war is a force of its
own that can distort people into
unrecognizable iterations of themselves
it fuels simple desires and twist them
into something terrifying
from mcburney desiring to live in peace
away from the war to the girls desiring
to experience something beyond the limbo
of their school everyone just wanted
something more but at the end of it all
mcburney still died young and the girls
remained in their school
subscribe to watch more videos like this
turn on notifications
and leave a like it really helps the
channel out thank you for watching